# {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} ({{ cookiecutter.customer }})


## Tech stack

- Python {{ cookiecutter.python_version }}
- uv
- PostgreSQL {{ cookiecutter.postgresql_version }}
- Django


**------------------- BEGIN DELETE SECTION --------------------**

## Get started after cookiecutter

1. Create a new remote git repository [here](https://singular-code.de/projects/new)
   1. Create the following CI/CD variables (under `Settings` > `CI/CD` > `Variables` > `Project variables` > `Add variable`):
       - `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`
         - Type: `Variable (default)` 
         - Environments: `All (default)`
         - Visibility: `Masked`
         - Flags - Protect variable: `yes`
         - Flags - Expand variable reference: `no`
         - Key: `DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`
         - Value:
         ```shell
         python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(50))"
         ```
2. Initialize git in the project

   ```bash
   git init --initial-branch=main
   ```

3. Create a venv and install dependencies:

   ```bash
   uv venv --allow-existing
   # Windows
   .venv\Scripts\activate
   # Linux: source .venv/bin/activate
   uv sync
   ```
   
4. Enable pre-commit hooks:

   ```bash
   pre-commit install
   ```

5. **Delete this section, because its only for the initial setup**

6. Create an initial commit and push to the remote repository:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
   git push --set-upstream origin main
   ```

7. Add our [Renovate Dog](https://singular-code.de/renovate.dog) to the GitLab repository and follow the instructions in the [BetterWiki article](https://singularit.singular-pages.de/better-wiki/wiki/tools/renovate-bot/#wie-kann-ich-den-renovate-bot-benutzen).

**------------------- END DELETE SECTION --------------------**

## Get started locally

1. Create a virtual environment using uv:

   ```bash
   uv venv --allow-existing
   # Windows
   .venv\Scripts\activate
   # Linux: source .venv/bin/activate
   uv sync
   ```

2. Create a database in your PostgreSQL instance
3. Create a `.env` file according to the `.env.example` file
4. Run the development server:

   ```bash
   python manage.py runserver
   # or
   uv run manage.py runserver
   ```
5. Install pre-commit hooks:

   ```bash
   pre-commit install
   ```

## GitLab CI/CD

GitLab CI/CD is a continuous integration and continuous deployment service built into GitLab. It automates tasks like testing, building, and deploying code on every push or merge request. Pipelines are defined in a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file at the repository root. Additional configuration can be modularized in the `.gitlab` folder for better organization:

```
.gitlab/
  ├── ci/
  │   ├── lint.yml
  │   ├── test.yml
  │   └── deploy.yml
.gitlab-ci.yml
```

### Dependency Track

To track vulnerabilities in dependencies we are using our Dependency Track Dashboard. The dashboard is updated with every push to the default branch or a created tag.
The dashboard is updated with the help of the `uv.lock` file that is generated by uv.

Have a look at our [BetterWiki article](https://singularit.singular-pages.de/better-wiki/wiki/ci-cd/sbom/#dependency-tracking) for more information about Dependency Track and how to use it.

You can view our Dependency Track Dashboard [here](https://dependency-track.v3.singular-it-test.de/).

### Stages

#### Lint

In the lint stage we are running `pre-commit` that checks for code formatting and linting issues.

When? Each push to a protected branch or a branch that has an open merge request to a protected branch.

#### Test

In general our test stage has 2 jobs:

1. `django-test` - runs the django unit tests
2. `deploy-check` - runs the django deployment check for security issues

When? Each push to a protected branch or a branch that has an open merge request to a protected branch.


#### Deployment to our v2 staging server

When? Each push to a protected branch.
